https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-13088 (#6770)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: governance/gatekeeper_operator/manage_gatekeeper.adoc

Reviewer: Not sure whether you want to replace all the instances of "Gatekeeper Operator" with the "{gate}" attribute here?

> [#managing-gatekeeper-operator-installation-policies]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#managing-gk-policies]
```

Reviewer 3: this could be also _managing_ or _manage_, but agree it can be reduced.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for simplifying where we can. I don't think I need to approve, since there has otherwise been a lot of review.

= Managing the {gate} installation policies

Use the {acm-short} policy to install the {gate} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

To create, view, and update your {gate} installation policies, complete the following sections: 

- <<installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Installing Gatekeeper using a {gate} policy>>
- <<creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console,Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console>>
- <<upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator,Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}>>
- <<disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Disabling {gate} policy>>
- <<deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Deleting {gate} policy>>
- <<uninstalling-gatekeeper,Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy>>

> [#installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#installing-gk-operator-policy]
```

== Installing Gatekeeper using a {gate} policy

> To install the {gate} policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the {gate} to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the {gate} creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the {gate} policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the {gate} to install it on your managed cluster. Then, the {gate} creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. 
```

To view the status of the {gate} policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the {gate} policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the {gate} objects on the managed cluster. 

> [#creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console]

Reviewer 2: How can the user create from the CLI? If we have steps for that I recommend we add a section named "Creating a {gate} policy" (H2), then make the option to configure from the console as a subsection of it. So make it H3
```suggestion
[#creating-gk-operator-console]
```

== Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console

When you create a Gatekeeper policy from the console, you must set your remediation `enforce` to install Gatekeeper. By default, the operator generates the values. 

> [#viewing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#viewing-gk-operator-policy]
```

=== Viewing the {gate} policy

To view your {gate} policy and its status from the console, complete the following steps:

. Select the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy to view more details.
. Select the _Clusters_ tab to view the policy violations. 

> [#upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#upgrading-gk-and-gk-operator]
```

== Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}

You can upgrade the versions for Gatekeeper and the {gate}. When you install the {gate} with the {gate} policy, notice the value for `upgradeApproval`. The operator upgrades automatically when you set `upgradeApproval` to `Automatic`.

If you set `upgradeApproval` to `Manual`, you must manually approve the upgrade for each cluster of the {gate}.

> [#disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#disabling-gk-operator-policy]
```

== Disabling {gate} policy

To disable your `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy, select the *Disable* option from the _Actions_ menu.

> [#deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#deleting-gk-operator-policy]
```

== Deleting {gate} policy

To delete your {gate} policy from your CLI, complete the following steps: 

. Delete {gate} policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----

 . Verify that you deleted your policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----

To delete your {gate} policy from the console, click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy and select *Delete*.

> [#uninstalling-gatekeeper]
> == Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy

Reviewer 2: Based on the TOC, i suggest the following:
```suggestion
[#uninstalling-gk]
== Uninstalling Gatekeeper constraint, Gatekeeper instance, and {gate} policy
```

if it's removed, is it also uninstalled and is the operator deleted?

[#creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console]
== Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console

When you create a Gatekeeper policy from the console, you must set your remediation `enforce` to install Gatekeeper. By default, the operator generates the values. 

[#viewing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
=== Viewing the {gate} policy

To view your {gate} policy and its status from the console, complete the following steps:

. Select the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy to view more details.
. Select the _Clusters_ tab to view the policy violations. 

[#upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator]
== Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}

You can upgrade the versions for Gatekeeper and the {gate}. When you install the {gate} with the {gate} policy, notice the value for `upgradeApproval`. The operator upgrades automatically when you set `upgradeApproval` to `Automatic`.

If you set `upgradeApproval` to `Manual`, you must manually approve the upgrade for each cluster of the {gate}.

[#disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Disabling {gate} policy
To disable your `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy, complete the following steps:

> . Select the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[#disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Disabling {gate} policy

To disable your `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy, select the *Disable* option from the _Actions_ menu.
```

. Click *Disable*. The _Disable Policy_ dialog box appears.

> . Click *Disable policy*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[#deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Deleting {gate} policy

To delete your {gate} policy from your CLI, complete the following steps: 

. Delete {gate} policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----

 . Verify that you deleted your policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----

> To delete your {gate} policy from the console, click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy and select *Remove*.

Reviewer 2: In another PR, the @drkho let me know that the option to delete a policy is "Delete". Derek can you help confirm? 
```suggestion
To delete your {gate} policy from the console, click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy and select *Delete*.
```

[#uninstalling-gatekeeper]
== Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy

To uninstall Gatekeeper policy, complete the steps in the following sections:

- <<removing-gatekeeper-constraint,Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-instance,Removing Gatekeeper instance>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-operator,Removing {gate}>>

[#removing-gatekeeper-constraint]
=== Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_

To remove the Gatekeeper constraint and `ConstraintTemplate` from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:

. Edit your Gatekeeper constraint or `ConstraintTemplate` policy. 
. Locate the template that you used to create the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate`.
. Delete the entries from the list of templates. (Or delete the policy if they're the only templates.)
. Save and apply the policy.

[#removing-gatekeeper-instance]
=== Removing Gatekeeper instance 

To remove the Gatekeeper instance from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:

. Edit your {gate} policy. 

> . Locate the `ConfigurationPolicy` template that you used to create the Gatekeeper custom resource.

Reviewer 2: Based on Dale's previous comments
```suggestion
. Locate the `ConfigurationPolicy` template that you used to create the {gate} custom resource.
```

. Change the value for `complianceType` of the `ConfigurationPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.

[#removing-gatekeeper-operator]
=== Removing {gate}

To remove the {gate} from your managed cluster, complete the following steps: 

. Edit your {gate} policy. 
. Locate the `OperatorPolicy` template that you used to create the Subscription CR.
. Change the value for `complianceType` of the `OperatorPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.

[#additional-resources-gk-operator]
== Additional resources

For more details, see the following resources: 

- xref:../gatekeeper_operator/gatekeeper_policy_constraints.adoc#integrating-gatekeeper-constraints-templates[Integrating Gatekeeper constraints and constraint templates].

- link:https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/policy-collection/blob/main/stable/CM-Configuration-Management/policy-gatekeeper-operator-downstream.yaml[Policy Gatekeeper].

- For an explanation of the optional parameters that can be used for the {gate} policy, see link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/charts/gatekeeper/README.md[Gatekeeper Helm Chart].

> - For a list of topics to integrate third-party policies with the product, see xref:../governance/third_party_policy_intro.adoc#integrate-third-party-policy-controllers[Integrate third-party policy controllers]. 

Reviewer 2: This link came up as broken
```suggestion
- For a list of topics to integrate third-party policies with the product, see xref:../../governance/third_party_policy_intro.adoc#integrate-third-party-policy-controllers[Integrate third-party policy controllers]. 
```

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-installation-policies]
= Managing the {gate} installation policies

Use the {acm-short} policy to install the {gate} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

To create, view, and update your {gate} installation policies, complete the following sections: 

- <<installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Installing Gatekeeper using a {gate} policy>>
- <<creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console,Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console>>
- <<upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator,Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}>>
- <<viewing-disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Viewing and disabling {gate} policy>>
- <<deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Deleting {gate} policy>>
- <<uninstalling-gatekeeper,Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy>>

[#installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Installing Gatekeeper using a {gate} policy

> To install the {gate} policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the {gate} to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the {gate} creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. See the sample, <<working-custom-resource,{gate} custom resource>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the {gate} policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the {gate} to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the {gate} creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper.
```

> To view the status of the {gate} policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the {gate}policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the {gate} objects on the managed cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the status of the {gate} policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the {gate} policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the {gate} objects on the managed cluster. 
```

[#creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console]
== Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console

When you create a Gatekeeper policy from the console, you must set your remediation `enforce` to install Gatekeeper. By default, the operator generates the values. 

[#upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator]
== Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}

You can upgrade the versions for Gatekeeper and the {gate}. When you install the {gate} with the {gate} policy, notice the value for `upgradeApproval`. The operator upgrades automatically when you set `upgradeApproval` to `Automatic`.

If you set `upgradeApproval` to `Manual`, you must manually approve the upgrade for each cluster of the {gate}.

[#viewing-disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy]

> == Viewing and disabling {gate} policy

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the back and forth. Reminder to reduce the console steps here, but let's also move this section after "Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console" on line 29. Let's also revert the header to H3 for Viewing the {gate} policy. I didn't mean for you to combine it with the disabling section. Disabling {gat} policy should still be its own H2 subsection with reduced console steps.

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-installation-policies]
= Managing the {gate} installation policies

Use the {acm-short} policy to install the {gate} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

To create, view, and update your {gate} installation policies, complete the following sections: 

. <<installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Installing Gatekeeper using a {gate} policy>>
. <<creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console,Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console>>
. <<upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator,Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}>>
. <<updating-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Updating {gate} policy>>
. <<deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Deleting {gate} policy>>

> . <<uninstalling-gatekeeper,Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy>>

Reviewer 2: Not sure why these are listed as steps. Is that intentional? I recommend that use the dash to create an unordered list. Also we do not need all the steps for creating the policy from the console. It is straightforward. I recommend only mentioning that the user needs to set their remediation action to `enforce` to install Gatekeeper

Author: The intent was for users to do them in sequential order, hence, like a procedure with steps to follow. I made them an unordered bullet list :) I also removed most of the content from the `creating policy from the console` section.

To create the policy from the console, complete the following steps:

. Install the Gatekeeper policy by creating a policy from the console. 
.. *Optional:* Go to the _Additional resources_ section for a reference to the sample YAML to deploy `policy-gatekeeper-operator.yaml`.

. After you log in to your cluster, go to the _Governance_ page.

. Select *Create policy*. 

. Complete the form and select *Gatekeeper Operator* from the _Specifications_ field. The parameter values for your policy are automatically populated and the policy is set to `inform` by default. 

. Set your remediation action to `enforce` to install Gatekeeper.

*Note:* By default, the operator generates the values. 

[#upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator]
== Upgrading Gatekeeper and the {gate}

You can upgrade the versions for Gatekeeper and the {gate}. When you install the {gate} with the {gate} policy, notice the value for `upgradeApproval`. The operator upgrades automatically when you set `upgradeApproval` to `Automatic`.

If you set `upgradeApproval` to `Manual`, you must manually approve the upgrade for each cluster of the {gate}.

[#updating-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Updating {gate} policy

> Update the {gate} policy by completing the following: 

Reviewer 2: I know i was the one who organized the file this way. Let's remove this section, remove " <<viewing-gatekeeper-operator-policy-from-the-console,Viewing {gate} policy from the console>>
- <<disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Disabling {gate} policy>>" as childlinks, and make Viewing and Disabling H2 subsections. Reminder about reducing the console steps and to update the TOC on lines 10-15

Author: Cool, let me know what you think of the newly edited and renamed section.

- <<viewing-gatekeeper-operator-policy-from-the-console,Viewing {gate} policy from the console>>
- <<disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Disabling {gate} policy>>

[#viewing-gatekeeper-operator-policy-from-the-console]
=== Viewing {gate} policy from the console

View your {gate} policy and its status from the console by completing the following steps:

. Log in to your cluster from the console.
. Click *Governance* to view a table list of your policies.
. Filter the table list of your policies by selecting the _Policies_ tab or _Cluster violations_ tab.
. Select the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy to view more details. View the policy violations by selecting the _Clusters_ tab.

[#disabling-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
=== Disabling {gate} policy

If you need to disable your `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy, complete the following steps:

. After you log in to your {acm} console, go to the _Governance_ page to view a table list of your policies.
. Select the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy.
. Click *Disable*. The _Disable Policy_ dialog box appears.
. Click *Disable policy*. 

[#deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Deleting {gate} policy

> If you need to delete your the {gate} policy, you can do so from the CLI or the console.

Reviewer 2: Remove this line

To delete your {gate} policy from your CLI, complete the following steps: 

> . Delete {gate} policy by running the following command:
> +
> ----
> oc delete policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Delete {gate} policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----
```

> +

Reviewer 2: Remove this plus sign

>  . Verify that you deleted your policy by running the following command:
> +
> ----
> oc get policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 . Verify that you deleted your policy by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----
```

> To delete your {gate} policy from the console, complete the following steps:
> 
> . Go to the _Governance_ page to view a table list of your policies.
> . Click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy. 
> . Click *Remove* to delete the policy. 
> . From the _Remove policy_ dialog box, click *Remove policy*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete your {gate} policy from the console, click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy and select *Remove*.
```

[#uninstalling-gatekeeper]
== Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and {gate} policy

> To uninstall Gatekeeper policy, complete the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To uninstall Gatekeeper policy, complete the steps in the following sections:
```

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-policies]

> = Managing Gatekeeper operator policies

Reviewer: (Optional) There seem to be instances throughout this file that could use the attribute?
```suggestion
= Managing {gate} policies
```

> = Managing Gatekeeper operator policies

Reviewer: It might be clearer to have either RHACM in the title or a word like "installation" in there, like "Managing Gatekeeper operator installation policies" or "Managing the Gatekeeper operator with RHACM policies".
```suggestion
[#managing-rhacm-gatekeeper-operator-policies]
= Managing {acm-short} Gatekeeper operator policies
```

To view the status of the Gatekeeper operator policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the Gatekeeper operator policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the Gatekeeper operator policies. 

[#creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console]
== Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console

To create the policy from the console, complete the following steps:

. Install the Gatekeeper policy by creating a policy from the console. 
.. *Optional:* Go to the _Additional resources_ section for a reference to the sample YAML to deploy `policy-gatekeeper-operator.yaml`.

. After you log in to your cluster, go to the _Governance_ page.

. Select *Create policy*. 

. As you complete the form, select *Gatekeeper Operator* from the _Specifications_ field. The parameter values for your policy are automatically populated and the policy is set to `inform` by default. 

. Set your remediation action to `enforce` to install Gatekeeper.

*Note:* Default values are generated by the operator.

[#gatekeeper-operator-sample]

> === Gatekeeper operator custom resource

Reviewer: This section about the Gatekeeper custom resource along with "Configuring _auditFromCache_ for sync details" should be its own section that comes before and lives outside anything about ACM policies.

    operations: <3>
     - "CREATE"
     - "UPDATE"
     - "CONNECT"
    failurePolicy: Fail
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 480m
        memory: 140Mi
      requests:
        cpu: 400m
        memory: 120Mi
  nodeSelector:
    region: "EMEA"
  affinity:
    podAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchLabels:
              auditKey: "auditValue"
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
  tolerations:
    - key: "Example"
      operator: "Exists"
      effect: "NoSchedule"
  podAnnotations:
    some-annotation: "this is a test"
    other-annotation: "another test"
----
<1> Enable the `auditEventsInvolvedNamespace` parameter to manage the namespace audit event you want to create. When you enable this parameter, the Gatekeeper controller deployment gets the following argument: `--audit-events-involved-namespace: true`.
<2> Enable the `admissionEventsInvolvedNamespace` parameter to manage the  namespace admission event you want to create. When you enable this parameter, the Gatekeeper controller deployment gets the following argument: `--admission-events-involved-namespace: true`.

> <3> To manage your webhook operations, use the following values for the `operations` parameter, `"CREATE"`, `"UPDATE"`, `"CONNECT"`, and `"DELETE"`.

Reviewer: These all need a caveat/note that this is available in v3.14+. Maybe lead the footnote with "(Added in v3.14)"?

Author: Again, we want to keep titles brief. I added this note right at the beginning of the first sentence of this section. 

Does that clarify? I'm happy to work more on it!

Reviewer: The rest of the YAML does apply to earlier versions--each of these three footnotes happen to be added in 3.14.

[#gatekeeper-audit-sync]

> === Configuring _auditFromCache_ for sync details

Reviewer: This also needs the version caveat.
```suggestion
=== Configuring _auditFromCache_ for sync details (for v3.14+)
```

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-policies]
= Managing {gate} policies

Use the {gate} policy to install the {gate} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

To create, view, and update your {gate} policies, complete the following sections: 

> - <<working-custom-resource,Working a {gate} custom resource>>

Author: @dhaiducek like you said, I made these sections on `custom resource` and `configuring sync details` come first, and before the sections on policies. 

Your initial comment said they should "live outside" ACM policies. With that said, do you want me to make these sections as their own, individual docs?

Reviewer: Yes, it'd be best if the "custom resource" and "configuring auditFromCache" were separate from the other sections (they can really be in the same file though since they both involve the Gatekeeper operator custom resource). Prior to the "custom resource" section, there should be some wording to show what the custom resource is for.

For context, the install flow for the Gatekeeper Operator is (without ACM):
- Install from the operator catalog (this installs the operator controller that looks for the custom resource)
- Create the Gatekeeper operator custom resource (this kicks off the Gatekeeper installation using the configuration)

So really the Gatekeeper operator custom resource is an installation configuration. Maybe move/reuse the wording from farther down in the doc?

> Gatekeeper operator is available in the {ocp-short} catalog. See _Adding Operators to a cluster_ in the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/operators/administrator-tasks#olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[{ocp-short} documentation] for more information.

> - <<working-custom-resource,Working a {gate} custom resource>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <<working-custom-resource,Working with the {gate} custom resource>>
```

To configure the `auditFromCache`, complete the following steps: 

. Set `auditFromCache` to `Automatic` in the `Gatekeeper` resource. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Gatekeeper 
metadata: 
  name: gatekeeper 
spec: 
  audit: replicas: 2 
    logLevel: DEBUG 
    auditFromCache: Automatic
----

+

. Use the {gate} to add the  `syncOnlys` parameter section to your config file. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Config
metadata:
 name: config
 namespace: "openshift-gatekeeper-system"
spec:
 sync:
   syncOnly:
   - group: ""
     version: "v1"
     kind: "Namespace"
   - group: ""
     version: "v1"
     kind: "Pod"
----

. Get the explanation of the `sync` setting by running the following command from your terminal:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc explain gatekeeper.spec.audit.auditFromCache
----

[#installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Installing Gatekeeper using a Gatekeeper operator policy

> To install the Gatekeeper operator, use the governance framework. Gatekeeper operator is available in the {ocp-short} catalog. See _Adding Operators to a cluster_ in the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/operators/administrator-tasks#olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[{ocp-short} documentation] for more information.
> 
> To install the Gatekeeper operator policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the Gatekeeper operator to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the Gatekeeper operator creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. See the <<gatekeeper-operator-sample,Gatekeeper operator custom resource>> sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Gatekeeper operator with {rhacm-short}, use the governance framework. Gatekeeper operator is available in the {ocp-short} catalog. See _Adding Operators to a cluster_ in the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/operators/administrator-tasks#olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[{ocp-short} documentation] for more information.

To install the Gatekeeper operator policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the Gatekeeper operator to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the Gatekeeper operator creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. See the <<gatekeeper-operator-sample,Gatekeeper operator custom resource>> sample.
```

> To view the status of the Gatekeeper operator policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the Gatekeeper operator policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the Gatekeeper operator policies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the status of the Gatekeeper operator policy, see the {acm-short} configuration policy controller because it checks the Gatekeeper operator policy and supports the  `enforce` remediation action. When you set the controller to `enforce` it automatically creates the Gatekeeper operator objects on the managed cluster. 
```

----
+

 . Verify that you deleted your policy by running the following command:
+
----
oc get policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io <policy-gatekeeper-operator-name> -n <namespace>
----

To delete your Gatekeeper operator policy from the console, complete the following steps:

. Go to the _Governance_ page to view a table list of your policies.
. Click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy. 
. Click *Remove* to delete the policy. 
. From the _Remove policy_ dialog box, click *Remove policy*.

[#uninstalling-gatekeeper]
== Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and Gatekeeper operator policy

To uninstall Gatekeeper policy, complete the following:

- <<removing-gatekeeper-constraint,Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-instance,Removing Gatekeeper instance>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-operator,Removing Gatekeeper operator>>

[#removing-gatekeeper-constraint]
=== Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_

To remove the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate` from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:
. Edit your Gatekeeper operator policy. 

> . Locate the `ConfigurationPolicy` template that you used to create the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate`.
> . Change the value for `complianceType` of the `ConfigurationPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the template that you used to create the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate`.
. Delete the entries from the list of templates. (Or delete the policy if they're the only templates.)
```

. Save and apply the policy.

[#removing-gatekeeper-instance]
=== Removing Gatekeeper instance 

To remove the Gatekeeper instance from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:

. Edit your Gatekeeper operator policy. 
. Locate the `ConfigurationPolicy` template that you used to create the Gatekeeper custom resource.
. Change the value for `complianceType` of the `ConfigurationPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.

[#removing-gatekeeper-operator]
=== Removing Gatekeeper operator

To remove the Gatekeeper operator from your managed cluster, complete the following steps: 

. Edit your Gatekeeper operator policy. 

> . Locate the `ConfigurationPolicy` template that you used to create the Subscription CR.
> . Change the value for `complianceType` of the `ConfigurationPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the `OperatorPolicy` template that you used to create the Subscription CR.
. Change the value for `complianceType` of the `OperatorPolicy` template to `mustnothave`.
```

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-installation-policies]
= Managing the {gate} installation policies

Use the {acm-short} policy to install the {gate} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

To create, view, and update your {gate} installation policies, complete the following sections: 

. <<working-custom-resource,Working with the {gate} custom resource>>
. <<configuring-audit-sync,Configuring _auditFromCache_ for sync details>>
. <<installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Installing Gatekeeper using a Gatekeeper operator policy>>
. <<creating-a-gatekeeper-policy-from-the-console,Creating a Gatekeeper policy from the console>>
. <<upgrading-gatekeeper-gatekeeper-operator,Upgrading Gatekeeper and the Gatekeeper operator>>
. <<updating-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Updating Gatekeeper operator policy>>
. <<deleting-gatekeeper-operator-policy,Deleting Gatekeeper operator policy>>
. <<uninstalling-gatekeeper,Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and Gatekeeper operator policy>>

[#working-custom-resource]
== Working with the {gate} custom resource

> The {gate} custom resource starts the Gatekeeper installation by using the configuration of the operator. If you want to work with a {gate} custom resource, use the following sample YAML: 

Reviewer: I've added/swapped some words around here--let me know what you think.
```suggestion
The {gate} custom resource tells the {gate} to start the Gatekeeper installation on the cluster using the given configuration. If you want to work with a {gate} custom resource, use the following sample YAML: 
```

      auditEventsInvolvedNamespace: Enabled <1>
    logLevel: DEBUG
    auditInterval: 10s
    constraintViolationLimit: 55
    auditFromCache: Enabled
    auditChunkSize: 66
    emitAuditEvents: Enabled
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 500m
        memory: 150Mi
      requests:
        cpu: 500m
        memory: 130Mi
  validatingWebhook: Enabled
  mutatingWebhook: Enabled
  webhook:
    replicas: 3
    emitAdmissionEvents: Enabled
    admissionEventsInvolvedNamespace: Enabled <2>
    disabledBuiltins: - http.send
    operations: <3>
     - "CREATE"
     - "UPDATE"
     - "CONNECT"
    failurePolicy: Fail
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 480m
        memory: 140Mi
      requests:
        cpu: 400m
        memory: 120Mi
  nodeSelector:
    region: "EMEA"
  affinity:
    podAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchLabels:
              auditKey: "auditValue"
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
  tolerations:
    - key: "Example"
      operator: "Exists"
      effect: "NoSchedule"
  podAnnotations:
    some-annotation: "this is a test"
    other-annotation: "another test"
----

> *Note:* For versions 3.14 or later, you cam implement the following features to this YAML:

Reviewer: Nice--this works for me!

<1> Enable the `auditEventsInvolvedNamespace` parameter to manage the namespace audit event you want to create. When you enable this parameter, the Gatekeeper controller deployment gets the following argument: `--audit-events-involved-namespace: true`.
<2> Enable the `admissionEventsInvolvedNamespace` parameter to manage the  namespace admission event you want to create. When you enable this parameter, the Gatekeeper controller deployment gets the following argument: `--admission-events-involved-namespace: true`.
<3> To manage your webhook operations, use the following values for the `operations` parameter, `"CREATE"`, `"UPDATE"`, `"CONNECT"`, and `"DELETE"`.

> To install the Gatekeeper operator with {rhacm-short}, use the governance framework. Gatekeeper operator is available in the {ocp-short} catalog. See _Adding Operators to a cluster_ in the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/operators/administrator-tasks#olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[{ocp-short} documentation] for more information.

Reviewer: I think this bit can lead the section, especially if it's a new parent section "Configuring the Gatekeeper operator" (or similarly named) section that contains the "custom resource" and "auditFromCache" sections. That way there's some context to install the operator and then create the custom resource.
```suggestion
To install the Gatekeeper operator with {rhacm-short}, use the governance framework. The {gate} is available in the {ocp-short} catalog. See _Adding Operators to a cluster_ in the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.16/html/operators/administrator-tasks#olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[{ocp-short} documentation] for more information.
```

[#configuring-audit-sync]
== Configuring _auditFromCache_ for sync details

> For versions 3.14 or later, the {gate} exposes a disabled setting in the custom resource definition within the `auditFromCache` audit. If you enable `auditFromCache`, then set `config.gatekeeper.sh` for the sync details. For more information, see link:https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/audit/#configuring-audit[Configuring Audit] in the Gatekeeper documentation.

Reviewer: Looks like there might have been some details that were unclear/lost in translation.
```suggestion
For versions 3.14 or later, the {gate} exposes a setting in the {gate} custom resource for the audit configuration with the parameter `auditFromCache`, which is disabled by default. If you enable `auditFromCache`, then you need to set `config.gatekeeper.sh` with the objects to sync to the cache. For more information, see link:https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/audit/#configuring-audit[Configuring Audit] in the Gatekeeper documentation.
```

> The {gate} collects resources from constraints, and you can install and insert those resources into your config resource. If resources do not exist, use the operator to create config resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `auditFromCache` is set to "Automatic", the {gate} collects resources from constraints and inserts those resources into your config resource. If the config resource does not exist, the operator will create the config resource.
```

> To configure the `auditFromCache`, complete the following steps: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure `auditFromCache` with "Automatic", complete the following steps: 
```

. Set `auditFromCache` to `Automatic` in the `Gatekeeper` resource. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Gatekeeper 
metadata: 
  name: gatekeeper 
spec: 
  audit: replicas: 2 
    logLevel: DEBUG 
    auditFromCache: Automatic
----

+

> . Use the {gate} to add the  `syncOnlys` parameter section to your config file. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. See the {gate} adds the `syncOnly` parameter section to your config file. See the following example:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Config
metadata:
 name: config
 namespace: "openshift-gatekeeper-system"
spec:
 sync:
   syncOnly:
   - group: ""
     version: "v1"
     kind: "Namespace"
   - group: ""
     version: "v1"
     kind: "Pod"
----

> . Get the explanation of the `sync` setting by running the following command from your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Get the explanation of the `auditFromCache` setting by running the following command from your terminal:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
oc explain gatekeeper.spec.audit.auditFromCache
----

[#installing-gatekeeper-operator-policy]
== Installing Gatekeeper using a Gatekeeper operator policy

> To install the Gatekeeper operator policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the Gatekeeper operator to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the Gatekeeper operator creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. See the <<gatekeeper-operator-sample,Gatekeeper operator custom resource>> sample.

Reviewer: For reference, I worked this out because this invalid reference is noted in the build logs in the PR:
```
asciidoctor: INFO: possible invalid reference: gatekeeper-operator-sample
```
ref: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/actions/runs/10581401679/job/29318577426?pr=6770#step:4:5

Looks like there might be another one there that's missing the underscores around `_GitOpsCluster_`
```suggestion
To install the Gatekeeper operator policy, use the configuration policy controller. During the install, the operator group and subscription pull the Gatekeeper operator to install it in your managed cluster. Then, the Gatekeeper operator creates a Gatekeeper custom resource to configure Gatekeeper. See the <<working-custom-resource,Gatekeeper operator custom resource>> sample.
```

----

To delete your Gatekeeper operator policy from the console, complete the following steps:

. Go to the _Governance_ page to view a table list of your policies.
. Click the *Actions* icon for the `policy-gatekeeper-operator` policy. 
. Click *Remove* to delete the policy. 
. From the _Remove policy_ dialog box, click *Remove policy*.

[#uninstalling-gatekeeper]
== Uninstalling Gatekeeper policy, Gatekeeper, and Gatekeeper operator policy

To uninstall Gatekeeper policy, complete the following:

- <<removing-gatekeeper-constraint,Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-instance,Removing Gatekeeper instance>>
- <<removing-gatekeeper-operator,Removing Gatekeeper operator>>

[#removing-gatekeeper-constraint]
=== Removing Gatekeeper _Constraint_

To remove the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate` from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:
. Edit your Gatekeeper operator policy. 
. Locate the template that you used to create the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate`.
. Delete the entries from the list of templates. (Or delete the policy if they're the only templates.)

> . Save and apply the policy.

Reviewer: Missing a line break, causing the list to run with the paragraph. Also replace "operator" with "constraint"

And sorry if this was my fault, but "constraint" is a category of objects and not an actual API kind, so that particular one shouldn't be surrounded by backticks, only `ConstraintTemplate` should.
```suggestion
To remove the Gatekeeper constraint and `ConstraintTemplate` from your managed cluster, complete the following steps:

. Edit your Gatekeeper constraint or `ConstraintTemplate` policy. 
. Locate the template that you used to create the Gatekeeper `Constraint` and `ConstraintTemplate`.
. Delete the entries from the list of templates. (Or delete the policy if they're the only templates.)
. Save and apply the policy.
```

[#managing-gatekeeper-operator-policies]
= Managing Gatekeeper operator policies

> Use the {gk-operator} policy to install the {gk-operator} and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 

Reviewer 2: This conref doesn't exist
```suggestion
Use the Gatekeeper operator policy to install the Gatekeeper operator and Gatekeeper on a managed cluster. 
```

Reviewer 3: I will work on this conref, please be sure not to copy and paste this from the dev PR.

*Required access*: Cluster administrator

> To create, view, and update your {gk-operator} policies, complete the following sections: 

Author: Dev reviewers:

Is the content here in the doc, `Managing Gatekeeper operator policies` good? 

There was significant changes to this content within this Dev PR I was given: https://github.com/dhaiducek/rhacm-docs/commit/6aff0a10669ba6f42425fe05fcf64bbf1c5fe755 

Not sure if we can keep this content mostly how the Doc team currently has it within our repo or if it needs to be more like the content provided within the Dev PR.

Reviewer: @jc-berger That's a point of discussion. From our perspective, using ACM Policies (whether to install the Gatekeeper Operator or deploy Gatekeeper Constraints and ConstraintTemplates) is an ACM topic rather than a Gatekeeper Operator topic.

Author: @dhaiducek 

Thanks, Dale! 

If it's within the ACM docs, I decided to work with the existing content we have here. 

I edited and revised a lot of it to make it more user focused and adhere to RH style guides. Let me know if you think any content needs updating or changing to be technically accurate.

[#additional-resources-gk-operator]
== Additional resources

For more details, see the following resources: 

- xref:../governance/gatekeeper_policy.adoc#gatekeeper-policy[Integrating Gatekeeper constraints and constraint templates].

- link:https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/policy-collection/blob/main/stable/CM-Configuration-Management/policy-gatekeeper-operator-downstream.yaml[Policy Gatekeeper].

> - F or an explanation of the optional parameters that can be used for the Gatekeeper operator policy, see link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/charts/gatekeeper/README.md[Gatekeeper Helm Chart].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For an explanation of the optional parameters that can be used for the Gatekeeper operator policy, see link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/charts/gatekeeper/README.md[Gatekeeper Helm Chart].
```
